# ConicBundles
This contains supplementary code for the paper ''Rationality of real conic bundles with quartic discriminant curve'' by Lena Ji and Mattie Ji. The functions of the files are as follows:

-Quadric-bundle-verifications.sage can be used to verify the claims made about the examples constructed in Sections 4.1 and 4.3 of the paper. Given three quadrics Q1, Q2, Q3 with rational coefficients, it checks smoothness of the curves Delta=(Q1*Q3-Q2^2=0) and Deltatilde, computes the real branch points of the genus two curve Gamma, and computes the signature of the quadric surface bundle Y --> P^1 on each interval between real branch points of Gamma. This code is a Sage implementation of the Magma code accompanying the paper "Curve classes on conic bundle threefolds and applications to rationality" by S. Frei, L. Ji, S. Sankar, B. Viray, and I. Vogt.

-P1tilde.sage can be used to verify the claims about the intermediate Jacobian torsor P1tilde for the examples in Section 4.2. Given three quadrics Q1, Q2, Q3, and a line in P^2, this code first checks whether this line meets the curve Delta=(Q1*Q3-Q2^2=0) in four distinct complex points. If it does, the code then checks whether a Gal(C/R)-invariant set of four points over this intersection spans a 3-plane in P^4 by computing the rank of the 4x4 submatrices. If at least one of these has full rank, then this set of four points gives a real point on P1tilde.

-P1tilde-bitangents.sage also looks for real points on P1tilde. It takes Q1, Q2, Q3 as inputs and, instead of checking over a given line, it checks whether P1tilde has any real points mapping to a real bitangent of the quartic curve Delta=(Q1*Q3-Q2^2=0). The portion of this code that computes the real bitangents of the quartic curve Delta was written by D. Plaumann, B. Sturmfels, and C. Vinzant, and is from the code "quartictype.sage" accompanying their paper "Quartic curves and their bitangents."

-Singular-members.m2 takes as inputs quadrics Q1, Q2, Q3 where one of the coefficients of Q1=Q1(s) varies in a one-parameter family parametrized by s. It outputs the values of s at which the signature sequence of the fibers of the quadric surface bundle can change (by computing the discriminant of the polynomial defining the branch locus of Gamma) and the values of s for which the quartic curve Delta is singular. (If both of the curves Delta and Deltatilde are smooth, then so is the threefold Y.) We do not use this code in our paper, but we include it in this GitHub repository for the interested reader who may want to construct some examples in families.

Note that throughout the paper we use the variables u,v,w for the coordinates of P^2, whereas in the code we use the variables x,y,z instead.
